dbt/models/iasworld/columns.md, before:

## acres

{% docs column_acres %}
Total acres
{% enddocs %}

## addr1

{% docs column_addr1 %}
Address line 1
{% enddocs %}

## addr2

{% docs column_addr2 %}
Address line 2
{% enddocs %}

## addr3

{% docs column_addr3 %}
Address line 3
{% enddocs %}

## addr4

{% docs column_addr4 %}
Address line 4
{% enddocs %}

## addr5

{% docs column_addr5 %}
Address line 5
{% enddocs %}

## addrtype

{% docs column_addrtype %}
Address type code (N, S, F, R, C)
{% enddocs %}

## addrvalid

{% docs column_addrvalid %}
Flag to denote whether address was validated against validation service
{% enddocs %}

## adjfact

{% docs column_adjfact %}
Adjustment factor
{% enddocs %}

## adradd

{% docs column_adradd %}
Address number suffix
{% enddocs %}

## adrdir

{% docs column_adrdir %}
Street direction
{% enddocs %}

## adrgrid

{% docs column_adrgrid %}
Grid address number
{% enddocs %}

## adrid

{% docs column_adrid %}
Unique address ID
{% enddocs %}

## adrno

{% docs column_adrno %}
Street number
{% enddocs %}

## adrparchild

{% docs column_adrparchild %}
Address parent child indicator
{% enddocs %}

## adrpostmod

{% docs column_adrpostmod %}
Address post modifier
{% enddocs %}

## adrpre

{% docs column_adrpre %}
Address number prefix
{% enddocs %}

## adrpremod

{% docs column_adrpremod %}
Address pre modifier
{% enddocs %}

## adrpretype

{% docs column_adrpretype %}
Address pre type
{% enddocs %}

## adrstatus

{% docs column_adrstatus %}
Address effective status
{% enddocs %}

## adrstr

{% docs column_adrstr %}
Address street name
{% enddocs %}

## adrsuf

{% docs column_adrsuf %}
Street suffix
{% enddocs %}

## adrsuf2

{% docs column_adrsuf2 %}
Street suffix #2
{% enddocs %}

## altbasedate

{% docs column_altbasedate %}
Alternate base date
{% enddocs %}

## aprtot

{% docs column_aprtot %}
Total appraised value
{% enddocs %}

## area

{% docs column_area %}
Area of this line
{% enddocs %}

## areaid

{% docs column_areaid %}
Unique identifier used to associate record to an Apex sketch area
{% enddocs %}

## areasum

{% docs column_areasum %}
Sum of designated structure areas
{% enddocs %}

## attn

{% docs column_attn %}
Attention line
{% enddocs %}

## bldgno

{% docs column_bldgno %}
Building number
{% enddocs %}

## bld_modelid

{% docs column_bld_modelid %}
Building model ID from `BLDMODELMAST` table
{% enddocs %}

## book

{% docs column_book %}
Book number
{% enddocs %}

## card

{% docs column_card %}
Building (card) number
{% enddocs %}

## careof

{% docs column_careof %}
In Care Of name
{% enddocs %}

## carrier_rt

{% docs column_carrier_rt %}
Carrier route - 4 digit suffix
{% enddocs %}

## caseno

{% docs column_caseno %}
Case number
{% enddocs %}

## cdu

{% docs column_cdu %}
Condition/Desirability/Utility code
{% enddocs %}

## chgrsn

{% docs column_chgrsn %}
Reason code for change of value.

Possible values for this variable are:

- `4` = Regular reduction (lasts until next triennial reassessment)
- `4B` = Regular reduction issued by the Board of Review (lasts until next
  triennial reassessment)
- `5` = One year only market value relief, implemented as an occupancy/vacancy
  reduction
- `5B` = One year only market value relief, implemented as an occupancy/vacancy
  reduction, and issued by the Board of Review
- `5C` = One year only market value relief, _not_ implemented as an
  occupancy/vacancy reduction, and issued by the Board of Review

{% enddocs %}

## cityname

{% docs column_cityname %}
City name
{% enddocs %}

## comnt

{% docs column_comnt %}
Comment
{% enddocs %}

## compartment

{% docs column_compartment %}
Compartment
{% enddocs %}

## convbldg

{% docs column_convbldg %}
Building value at conversion
{% enddocs %}

## conveyno

{% docs column_conveyno %}
Conveyance number
{% enddocs %}

## country

{% docs column_country %}
Country
{% enddocs %}

## cur

{% docs column_cur %}
Current record indicator
{% enddocs %}

## deactivat

{% docs column_deactivat %}
Deactivate date
{% enddocs %}

## delinstalltype

{% docs column_delinstalltype %}
Delivery installation type
{% enddocs %}

## delinstallval

{% docs column_delinstallval %}
Delivery installation value
{% enddocs %}

## delmod

{% docs column_delmod %}
Mode of delivery
{% enddocs %}

## delmodval

{% docs column_delmodval %}
Mode of delivery value
{% enddocs %}

## deprt

{% docs column_deprt %}
Override depreciation table
{% enddocs %}

## ecndep

{% docs column_ecndep %}
Economic depreciation
{% enddocs %}

## ecnrsn

{% docs column_ecnrsn %}
Reason code for economic depreciation
{% enddocs %}

## effageovr

{% docs column_effageovr %}
Effective age override
{% enddocs %}

## effyr

{% docs column_effyr %}
Effective year
{% enddocs %}

## email

{% docs column_email %}
Email address of contact person
{% enddocs %}

## excess

{% docs column_excess %}
Flag to indicate excess value
{% enddocs %}

## excode

{% docs column_excode %}
Exemption code
{% enddocs %}

## exmppct

{% docs column_exmppct %}
Exemption percent
{% enddocs %}

## exmpval

{% docs column_exmpval %}
Exemption value
{% enddocs %}

## fax

{% docs column_fax %}
Fax number of contact person
{% enddocs %}

## fedid

{% docs column_fedid %}
Federal tax ID number
{% enddocs %}

## floorno

{% docs column_floorno %}
Address floor number
{% enddocs %}

## fundep

{% docs column_fundep %}
Functional depreciation
{% enddocs %}

## funrsn

{% docs column_funrsn %}
Reason code for functional depreciation
{% enddocs %}

## grade

{% docs column_grade %}
Grade
{% enddocs %}

## grpadj

{% docs column_grpadj %}
Group adjustment value
{% enddocs %}

## heartyp

{% docs column_heartyp %}
Appeal hearing type.

Possible values for this variable are:

- `A` = Current year appeal
- `C` = Current appeal & certificate of error
- `O` = Omitted Assessment
- `E` = Certificate of error only
- `EE` = Erroneous exemption
- `P` = PTAB refund
- `S` = Specific objection

{% enddocs %}

## hga

{% docs column_hga %}
Homesite indicator
{% enddocs %}

## iasw_id

{% docs column_iasw_id %}
iasWorld unique row identifier
{% enddocs %}

## infl

{% docs column_infl %}
Influence reason code.

Join to `ccao.infl_reascd` to get descriptions for each code.
{% enddocs %}

## instrtyp

{% docs column_instrtyp %}
Instrument type
{% enddocs %}

## instruno

{% docs column_instruno %}
Instrument number
{% enddocs %}

## jur

{% docs column_jur %}
Jurisdiction
{% enddocs %}

## loc2

{% docs column_loc2 %}
Address location line 2
{% enddocs %}

## luc

{% docs column_luc %}
Land use code
{% enddocs %}

## lumpcamod

{% docs column_lumpcamod %}
Market modifier lumpsum value
{% enddocs %}

## marstat

{% docs column_marstat %}
Marital status
{% enddocs %}

## mktadj

{% docs column_mktadj %}
Percent good override, deprecated in 2024.

Typically used to denote a 1-year percentage discount due to vacancy
or similar temporary situations. For 2023 data, check `external_occpct`
as well. For 2024 on, use `external_occpct` instead.
{% enddocs %}

## nccalc

{% docs column_nccalc %}
Calculated current new construction value
{% enddocs %}

## ncoval

{% docs column_ncoval %}
Override current new construction value
{% enddocs %}

## nctot

{% docs column_nctot %}
Cumulative new construction value
{% enddocs %}

## ncval

{% docs column_ncval %}
Final current new construction value
{% enddocs %}

## newconmo

{% docs column_newconmo %}
New construction month. Used only in asmt calc.
{% enddocs %}

## newconpct

{% docs column_newconpct %}
New construction percentage. Used only in asmt calc.
{% enddocs %}

## newseq

{% docs column_newseq %}
New sequence number
{% enddocs %}

## nopar

{% docs column_nopar %}
Number of parcels
{% enddocs %}

## oldown

{% docs column_oldown %}
Old owner name
{% enddocs %}

## oldown2

{% docs column_oldown2 %}
Old owner name 2
{% enddocs %}

## oldseq

{% docs column_oldseq %}
Old sequence number
{% enddocs %}

## oldyr

{% docs column_oldyr %}
Old year
{% enddocs %}

## ovrmraval

{% docs column_ovrmraval %}
Override MRA Value
{% enddocs %}

## ovrnbhd

{% docs column_ovrnbhd %}
Neighborhood number
{% enddocs %}

## ovrrcnld

{% docs column_ovrrcnld %}
Override replacement cost new less depreciation
{% enddocs %}

## own1

{% docs column_own1 %}
Owner name 1
{% enddocs %}

## own1_companyname

{% docs column_own1_companyname %}
Owner 1 company name
{% enddocs %}

## own1_firstname

{% docs column_own1_firstname %}
Owner 1 first name
{% enddocs %}

## own1_lastname

{% docs column_own1_lastname %}
Owner 1 last name
{% enddocs %}

## own1_middlename

{% docs column_own1_middlename %}
Owner 1 middle name
{% enddocs %}

## own1_prefix

{% docs column_own1_prefix %}
Owner 1 prefix
{% enddocs %}

## own1_suffix

{% docs column_own1_suffix %}
Owner 1 suffix
{% enddocs %}

## own2

{% docs column_own2 %}
Owner name 2
{% enddocs %}

## own2_companyname

{% docs column_own2_companyname %}
Owner 2 company name
{% enddocs %}

## own2_firstname

{% docs column_own2_firstname %}
Owner 2 first name
{% enddocs %}

## own2_lastname

{% docs column_own2_lastname %}
Owner 2 last name
{% enddocs %}

## own2_middlename

{% docs column_own2_middlename %}
Owner 2 middle name
{% enddocs %}

## own2_prefix

{% docs column_own2_prefix %}
Owner 2 prefix
{% enddocs %}

## own2_suffix

{% docs column_own2_suffix %}
Owner 2 suffix
{% enddocs %}

## ownnum

{% docs column_ownnum %}
Owner number
{% enddocs %}

## page

{% docs column_page %}
Page number
{% enddocs %}

## partial

{% docs column_partial %}
Partial ownership indicator
{% enddocs %}

## pctcomp

{% docs column_pctcomp %}
Percent of construction completed
{% enddocs %}

## pctown

{% docs column_pctown %}
Percent of ownership for primary owner
{% enddocs %}

## phone

{% docs column_phone %}
Phone number
{% enddocs %}

## postalcode

{% docs column_postalcode %}
Postal code (international zip code)
{% enddocs %}

## postal_indx

{% docs column_postal_indx %}
Postal index number
{% enddocs %}

## procdate

{% docs column_procdate %}
Procedure date
{% enddocs %}

## procname

{% docs column_procname %}
Procedure name.

Defines the "stage" of assessed values held in the `valasm*` and `ovrvalasm*`
fields. Possible values include:

- `CCAOVALUE` = CCAO mailed values (pre-appeal)
- `CCAOFINAL` = CCAO certified values (after Assessor appeals)
- `BORVALUE` = BoR certified values (after Board of Review appeals)
{% enddocs %}

## prodamage

{% docs column_prodamage %}
Percent damaged
{% enddocs %}

## prodate

{% docs column_prodate %}
Proration date
{% enddocs %}

## profact

{% docs column_profact %}
Proration factor
{% enddocs %}

## protype

{% docs column_protype %}
Proration type
{% enddocs %}

## rcn

{% docs column_rcn %}
Replacement cost new
{% enddocs %}

## rcnld

{% docs column_rcnld %}
Replacement cost new less depreciation
{% enddocs %}

## recnr

{% docs column_recnr %}
Value record number
{% enddocs %}

## rectype

{% docs column_rectype %}
Value category: P (`PP11`) or R (`CA11`)
{% enddocs %}

## rolltype

{% docs column_rolltype %}
Tax roll name.

- RP = Real property
- RR = Railroad

All records (absent 2021 and some in 2022) should be only RP or have minimally
a single RP record. There should no longer he any active RR records for
2023 and later.
{% enddocs %}

## salekey

{% docs column_salekey %}
Key pointing to the sale
{% enddocs %}

## saletype

{% docs column_saletype %}
Sale type code (land or land and building)
{% enddocs %}

## saleval

{% docs column_saleval %}
Sale validity code
{% enddocs %}

## seq

{% docs column_seq %}
Version number of this record
{% enddocs %}

## site

{% docs column_site %}
Site
{% enddocs %}

## skip_addr_validation

{% docs column_skip_addr_validation %}
Skip address validation
{% enddocs %}

## splitno

{% docs column_splitno %}
Split/combination tracking number
{% enddocs %}

## ssn

{% docs column_ssn %}
Social security number
{% enddocs %}

## ssn2

{% docs column_ssn2 %}
Social security number 2
{% enddocs %}

## statecode

{% docs column_statecode %}
State or province (2 digit)
{% enddocs %}

## status

{% docs column_status %}
Processing status
{% enddocs %}

## steb

{% docs column_steb %}
State sales code
{% enddocs %}

## stflag

{% docs column_stflag %}
State report flag
{% enddocs %}

## stories

{% docs column_stories %}
Story height
{% enddocs %}

## strcd

{% docs column_strcd %}
Street code
{% enddocs %}

## strreloc

{% docs column_strreloc %}
Relative location
{% enddocs %}

## suppress

{% docs column_suppress %}
Flag to indicate suppress value
{% enddocs %}

## trans_id

{% docs column_trans_id %}
iasWorld transaction number
{% enddocs %}

## unit

{% docs column_unit %}
Unit
{% enddocs %}

## unitdesc

{% docs column_unitdesc %}
Address unit description
{% enddocs %}

## unitno

{% docs column_unitno %}
Address unit number
{% enddocs %}

## upd_status

{% docs column_upd_status %}
iasWorld update status for this row
{% enddocs %}

## valapr1

{% docs column_valapr1 %}
Land market value
{% enddocs %}

## valapr2

{% docs column_valapr2 %}
Building market value
{% enddocs %}

## valapr3

{% docs column_valapr3 %}
Total market value
{% enddocs %}

## valasm1

{% docs column_valasm1 %}
Land assessed value
{% enddocs %}

## valasm2

{% docs column_valasm2 %}
Building assessed value
{% enddocs %}

## valasm3

{% docs column_valasm3 %}
Total assessed value
{% enddocs %}

## valclass

{% docs column_valclass %}
Tax assessment class
{% enddocs %}

## vect

{% docs column_vect %}
Vector string
{% enddocs %}

## vectnotes

{% docs column_vectnotes %}
Sketch vector notes
{% enddocs %}

## ver

{% docs column_ver %}
Calculation table version
{% enddocs %}

## wallhgt

{% docs column_wallhgt %}
Wall height
{% enddocs %}

## wen

{% docs column_wen %}
Last maintenance date
{% enddocs %}

## wencalc

{% docs column_wencalc %}
Date of last batch change
{% enddocs %}

## who

{% docs column_who %}
User ID of last maintenance
{% enddocs %}

## whocalc

{% docs column_whocalc %}
Batch computation/change
{% enddocs %}

## xcoord

{% docs column_xcoord %}
X coordinate
{% enddocs %}

## ycoord

{% docs column_ycoord %}
Y coordinate
{% enddocs %}

## yrblt

{% docs column_yrblt %}
Year built
{% enddocs %}

## zip1

{% docs column_zip1 %}
Zip code, first 5 digits
{% enddocs %}

## zip2

{% docs column_zip2 %}
Zip code suffix, last 4 digits
{% enddocs %}

Commit message:

Add `FINALEAV` to `procname` dbt column docs

dbt/models/iasworld/columns.md, after:

## acres

{% docs column_acres %}
Total acres
{% enddocs %}

## addr1

{% docs column_addr1 %}
Address line 1
{% enddocs %}

## addr2

{% docs column_addr2 %}
Address line 2
{% enddocs %}

## addr3

{% docs column_addr3 %}
Address line 3
{% enddocs %}

## addr4

{% docs column_addr4 %}
Address line 4
{% enddocs %}

## addr5

{% docs column_addr5 %}
Address line 5
{% enddocs %}

## addrtype

{% docs column_addrtype %}
Address type code (N, S, F, R, C)
{% enddocs %}

## addrvalid

{% docs column_addrvalid %}
Flag to denote whether address was validated against validation service
{% enddocs %}

## adjfact

{% docs column_adjfact %}
Adjustment factor
{% enddocs %}

## adradd

{% docs column_adradd %}
Address number suffix
{% enddocs %}

## adrdir

{% docs column_adrdir %}
Street direction
{% enddocs %}

## adrgrid

{% docs column_adrgrid %}
Grid address number
{% enddocs %}

## adrid

{% docs column_adrid %}
Unique address ID
{% enddocs %}

## adrno

{% docs column_adrno %}
Street number
{% enddocs %}

## adrparchild

{% docs column_adrparchild %}
Address parent child indicator
{% enddocs %}

## adrpostmod

{% docs column_adrpostmod %}
Address post modifier
{% enddocs %}

## adrpre

{% docs column_adrpre %}
Address number prefix
{% enddocs %}

## adrpremod

{% docs column_adrpremod %}
Address pre modifier
{% enddocs %}

## adrpretype

{% docs column_adrpretype %}
Address pre type
{% enddocs %}

## adrstatus

{% docs column_adrstatus %}
Address effective status
{% enddocs %}

## adrstr

{% docs column_adrstr %}
Address street name
{% enddocs %}

## adrsuf

{% docs column_adrsuf %}
Street suffix
{% enddocs %}

## adrsuf2

{% docs column_adrsuf2 %}
Street suffix #2
{% enddocs %}

## altbasedate

{% docs column_altbasedate %}
Alternate base date
{% enddocs %}

## aprtot

{% docs column_aprtot %}
Total appraised value
{% enddocs %}

## area

{% docs column_area %}
Area of this line
{% enddocs %}

## areaid

{% docs column_areaid %}
Unique identifier used to associate record to an Apex sketch area
{% enddocs %}

## areasum

{% docs column_areasum %}
Sum of designated structure areas
{% enddocs %}

## attn

{% docs column_attn %}
Attention line
{% enddocs %}

## bldgno

{% docs column_bldgno %}
Building number
{% enddocs %}

## bld_modelid

{% docs column_bld_modelid %}
Building model ID from `BLDMODELMAST` table
{% enddocs %}

## book

{% docs column_book %}
Book number
{% enddocs %}

## card

{% docs column_card %}
Building (card) number
{% enddocs %}

## careof

{% docs column_careof %}
In Care Of name
{% enddocs %}

## carrier_rt

{% docs column_carrier_rt %}
Carrier route - 4 digit suffix
{% enddocs %}

## caseno

{% docs column_caseno %}
Case number
{% enddocs %}

## cdu

{% docs column_cdu %}
Condition/Desirability/Utility code
{% enddocs %}

## chgrsn

{% docs column_chgrsn %}
Reason code for change of value.

Possible values for this variable are:

- `4` = Regular reduction (lasts until next triennial reassessment)
- `4B` = Regular reduction issued by the Board of Review (lasts until next
  triennial reassessment)
- `5` = One year only market value relief, implemented as an occupancy/vacancy
  reduction
- `5B` = One year only market value relief, implemented as an occupancy/vacancy
  reduction, and issued by the Board of Review
- `5C` = One year only market value relief, _not_ implemented as an
  occupancy/vacancy reduction, and issued by the Board of Review

{% enddocs %}

## cityname

{% docs column_cityname %}
City name
{% enddocs %}

## comnt

{% docs column_comnt %}
Comment
{% enddocs %}

## compartment

{% docs column_compartment %}
Compartment
{% enddocs %}

## convbldg

{% docs column_convbldg %}
Building value at conversion
{% enddocs %}

## conveyno

{% docs column_conveyno %}
Conveyance number
{% enddocs %}

## country

{% docs column_country %}
Country
{% enddocs %}

## cur

{% docs column_cur %}
Current record indicator
{% enddocs %}

## deactivat

{% docs column_deactivat %}
Deactivate date
{% enddocs %}

## delinstalltype

{% docs column_delinstalltype %}
Delivery installation type
{% enddocs %}

## delinstallval

{% docs column_delinstallval %}
Delivery installation value
{% enddocs %}

## delmod

{% docs column_delmod %}
Mode of delivery
{% enddocs %}

## delmodval

{% docs column_delmodval %}
Mode of delivery value
{% enddocs %}

## deprt

{% docs column_deprt %}
Override depreciation table
{% enddocs %}

## ecndep

{% docs column_ecndep %}
Economic depreciation
{% enddocs %}

## ecnrsn

{% docs column_ecnrsn %}
Reason code for economic depreciation
{% enddocs %}

## effageovr

{% docs column_effageovr %}
Effective age override
{% enddocs %}

## effyr

{% docs column_effyr %}
Effective year
{% enddocs %}

## email

{% docs column_email %}
Email address of contact person
{% enddocs %}

## excess

{% docs column_excess %}
Flag to indicate excess value
{% enddocs %}

## excode

{% docs column_excode %}
Exemption code
{% enddocs %}

## exmppct

{% docs column_exmppct %}
Exemption percent
{% enddocs %}

## exmpval

{% docs column_exmpval %}
Exemption value
{% enddocs %}

## fax

{% docs column_fax %}
Fax number of contact person
{% enddocs %}

## fedid

{% docs column_fedid %}
Federal tax ID number
{% enddocs %}

## floorno

{% docs column_floorno %}
Address floor number
{% enddocs %}

## fundep

{% docs column_fundep %}
Functional depreciation
{% enddocs %}

## funrsn

{% docs column_funrsn %}
Reason code for functional depreciation
{% enddocs %}

## grade

{% docs column_grade %}
Grade
{% enddocs %}

## grpadj

{% docs column_grpadj %}
Group adjustment value
{% enddocs %}

## heartyp

{% docs column_heartyp %}
Appeal hearing type.

Possible values for this variable are:

- `A` = Current year appeal
- `C` = Current appeal & certificate of error
- `O` = Omitted Assessment
- `E` = Certificate of error only
- `EE` = Erroneous exemption
- `P` = PTAB refund
- `S` = Specific objection

{% enddocs %}

## hga

{% docs column_hga %}
Homesite indicator
{% enddocs %}

## iasw_id

{% docs column_iasw_id %}
iasWorld unique row identifier
{% enddocs %}

## infl

{% docs column_infl %}
Influence reason code.

Join to `ccao.infl_reascd` to get descriptions for each code.
{% enddocs %}

## instrtyp

{% docs column_instrtyp %}
Instrument type
{% enddocs %}

## instruno

{% docs column_instruno %}
Instrument number
{% enddocs %}

## jur

{% docs column_jur %}
Jurisdiction
{% enddocs %}

## loc2

{% docs column_loc2 %}
Address location line 2
{% enddocs %}

## luc

{% docs column_luc %}
Land use code
{% enddocs %}

## lumpcamod

{% docs column_lumpcamod %}
Market modifier lumpsum value
{% enddocs %}

## marstat

{% docs column_marstat %}
Marital status
{% enddocs %}

## mktadj

{% docs column_mktadj %}
Percent good override, deprecated in 2024.

Typically used to denote a 1-year percentage discount due to vacancy
or similar temporary situations. For 2023 data, check `external_occpct`
as well. For 2024 on, use `external_occpct` instead.
{% enddocs %}

## nccalc

{% docs column_nccalc %}
Calculated current new construction value
{% enddocs %}

## ncoval

{% docs column_ncoval %}
Override current new construction value
{% enddocs %}

## nctot

{% docs column_nctot %}
Cumulative new construction value
{% enddocs %}

## ncval

{% docs column_ncval %}
Final current new construction value
{% enddocs %}

## newconmo

{% docs column_newconmo %}
New construction month. Used only in asmt calc.
{% enddocs %}

## newconpct

{% docs column_newconpct %}
New construction percentage. Used only in asmt calc.
{% enddocs %}

## newseq

{% docs column_newseq %}
New sequence number
{% enddocs %}

## nopar

{% docs column_nopar %}
Number of parcels
{% enddocs %}

## oldown

{% docs column_oldown %}
Old owner name
{% enddocs %}

## oldown2

{% docs column_oldown2 %}
Old owner name 2
{% enddocs %}

## oldseq

{% docs column_oldseq %}
Old sequence number
{% enddocs %}

## oldyr

{% docs column_oldyr %}
Old year
{% enddocs %}

## ovrmraval

{% docs column_ovrmraval %}
Override MRA Value
{% enddocs %}

## ovrnbhd

{% docs column_ovrnbhd %}
Neighborhood number
{% enddocs %}

## ovrrcnld

{% docs column_ovrrcnld %}
Override replacement cost new less depreciation
{% enddocs %}

## own1

{% docs column_own1 %}
Owner name 1
{% enddocs %}

## own1_companyname

{% docs column_own1_companyname %}
Owner 1 company name
{% enddocs %}

## own1_firstname

{% docs column_own1_firstname %}
Owner 1 first name
{% enddocs %}

## own1_lastname

{% docs column_own1_lastname %}
Owner 1 last name
{% enddocs %}

## own1_middlename

{% docs column_own1_middlename %}
Owner 1 middle name
{% enddocs %}

## own1_prefix

{% docs column_own1_prefix %}
Owner 1 prefix
{% enddocs %}

## own1_suffix

{% docs column_own1_suffix %}
Owner 1 suffix
{% enddocs %}

## own2

{% docs column_own2 %}
Owner name 2
{% enddocs %}

## own2_companyname

{% docs column_own2_companyname %}
Owner 2 company name
{% enddocs %}

## own2_firstname

{% docs column_own2_firstname %}
Owner 2 first name
{% enddocs %}

## own2_lastname

{% docs column_own2_lastname %}
Owner 2 last name
{% enddocs %}

## own2_middlename

{% docs column_own2_middlename %}
Owner 2 middle name
{% enddocs %}

## own2_prefix

{% docs column_own2_prefix %}
Owner 2 prefix
{% enddocs %}

## own2_suffix

{% docs column_own2_suffix %}
Owner 2 suffix
{% enddocs %}

## ownnum

{% docs column_ownnum %}
Owner number
{% enddocs %}

## page

{% docs column_page %}
Page number
{% enddocs %}

## partial

{% docs column_partial %}
Partial ownership indicator
{% enddocs %}

## pctcomp

{% docs column_pctcomp %}
Percent of construction completed
{% enddocs %}

## pctown

{% docs column_pctown %}
Percent of ownership for primary owner
{% enddocs %}

## phone

{% docs column_phone %}
Phone number
{% enddocs %}

## postalcode

{% docs column_postalcode %}
Postal code (international zip code)
{% enddocs %}

## postal_indx

{% docs column_postal_indx %}
Postal index number
{% enddocs %}

## procdate

{% docs column_procdate %}
Procedure date
{% enddocs %}

## procname

{% docs column_procname %}
Procedure name.

Defines the "stage" of assessed values held in the `valasm*` and `ovrvalasm*`
fields. Possible values include:

- `CCAOVALUE` = CCAO mailed values (pre-appeal)
- `CCAOFINAL` = CCAO certified values (after Assessor appeals)
- `BORVALUE` = BoR certified values (after Board of Review appeals)
- `FINALEAV` = Final equalized assessed values. This `procname` is new to us,
  so we don't know much about it yet, but we know it should be present for all
  PINs in an assessment year once second installment bills have mailed for that
  year.
{% enddocs %}

## prodamage

{% docs column_prodamage %}
Percent damaged
{% enddocs %}

## prodate

{% docs column_prodate %}
Proration date
{% enddocs %}

## profact

{% docs column_profact %}
Proration factor
{% enddocs %}

## protype

{% docs column_protype %}
Proration type
{% enddocs %}

## rcn

{% docs column_rcn %}
Replacement cost new
{% enddocs %}

## rcnld

{% docs column_rcnld %}
Replacement cost new less depreciation
{% enddocs %}

## recnr

{% docs column_recnr %}
Value record number
{% enddocs %}

## rectype

{% docs column_rectype %}
Value category: P (`PP11`) or R (`CA11`)
{% enddocs %}

## rolltype

{% docs column_rolltype %}
Tax roll name.

- RP = Real property
- RR = Railroad

All records (absent 2021 and some in 2022) should be only RP or have minimally
a single RP record. There should no longer he any active RR records for
2023 and later.
{% enddocs %}

## salekey

{% docs column_salekey %}
Key pointing to the sale
{% enddocs %}

## saletype

{% docs column_saletype %}
Sale type code (land or land and building)
{% enddocs %}

## saleval

{% docs column_saleval %}
Sale validity code
{% enddocs %}

## seq

{% docs column_seq %}
Version number of this record
{% enddocs %}

## site

{% docs column_site %}
Site
{% enddocs %}

## skip_addr_validation

{% docs column_skip_addr_validation %}
Skip address validation
{% enddocs %}

## splitno

{% docs column_splitno %}
Split/combination tracking number
{% enddocs %}

## ssn

{% docs column_ssn %}
Social security number
{% enddocs %}

## ssn2

{% docs column_ssn2 %}
Social security number 2
{% enddocs %}

## statecode

{% docs column_statecode %}
State or province (2 digit)
{% enddocs %}

## status

{% docs column_status %}
Processing status
{% enddocs %}

## steb

{% docs column_steb %}
State sales code
{% enddocs %}

## stflag

{% docs column_stflag %}
State report flag
{% enddocs %}

## stories

{% docs column_stories %}
Story height
{% enddocs %}

## strcd

{% docs column_strcd %}
Street code
{% enddocs %}

## strreloc

{% docs column_strreloc %}
Relative location
{% enddocs %}

## suppress

{% docs column_suppress %}
Flag to indicate suppress value
{% enddocs %}

## trans_id

{% docs column_trans_id %}
iasWorld transaction number
{% enddocs %}

## unit

{% docs column_unit %}
Unit
{% enddocs %}

## unitdesc

{% docs column_unitdesc %}
Address unit description
{% enddocs %}

## unitno

{% docs column_unitno %}
Address unit number
{% enddocs %}

## upd_status

{% docs column_upd_status %}
iasWorld update status for this row
{% enddocs %}

## valapr1

{% docs column_valapr1 %}
Land market value
{% enddocs %}

## valapr2

{% docs column_valapr2 %}
Building market value
{% enddocs %}

## valapr3

{% docs column_valapr3 %}
Total market value
{% enddocs %}

## valasm1

{% docs column_valasm1 %}
Land assessed value
{% enddocs %}

## valasm2

{% docs column_valasm2 %}
Building assessed value
{% enddocs %}

## valasm3

{% docs column_valasm3 %}
Total assessed value
{% enddocs %}

## valclass

{% docs column_valclass %}
Tax assessment class
{% enddocs %}

## vect

{% docs column_vect %}
Vector string
{% enddocs %}

## vectnotes

{% docs column_vectnotes %}
Sketch vector notes
{% enddocs %}

## ver

{% docs column_ver %}
Calculation table version
{% enddocs %}

## wallhgt

{% docs column_wallhgt %}
Wall height
{% enddocs %}

## wen

{% docs column_wen %}
Last maintenance date
{% enddocs %}

## wencalc

{% docs column_wencalc %}
Date of last batch change
{% enddocs %}

## who

{% docs column_who %}
User ID of last maintenance
{% enddocs %}

## whocalc

{% docs column_whocalc %}
Batch computation/change
{% enddocs %}

## xcoord

{% docs column_xcoord %}
X coordinate
{% enddocs %}

## ycoord

{% docs column_ycoord %}
Y coordinate
{% enddocs %}

## yrblt

{% docs column_yrblt %}
Year built
{% enddocs %}

## zip1

{% docs column_zip1 %}
Zip code, first 5 digits
{% enddocs %}

## zip2

{% docs column_zip2 %}
Zip code suffix, last 4 digits
{% enddocs %}
