dbt/models/default/docs.md, before:

# vw_card_res_char

{% docs view_vw_card_res_char %}
View to standardize residential property characteristics for use in modeling
and reporting.

### Nuance

- Only contains characteristics for "regression class" residential properties,
  see `ccao.class_dict` for details.
- Observations are card-level, i.e. each row is one building. Note that a
  card does not necessarily equal a PIN.
- Land is parcel-level, not card-level.

**Primary Key**: `year`, `pin`, `card`
{% enddocs %}

# vw_pin_address

{% docs view_vw_pin_address %}
Source of truth view for PIN address, both legal (property address)
and mailing (owner/taxpayer address).

### Nuance

- Mailing addresses and owner names have not been regularly updated since 2017.
- Newer properties may be missing a mailing or property address, as they
  need to be assigned one by the postal service.

**Primary Key**: `year`, `pin`
{% enddocs %}

# vw_pin_appeal

{% docs view_vw_pin_appeal %}
View of assessment appeals by stage (wide format). Shows appeal decision,
reason, and results.

### Assumptions

- Appeal types coding is static.
- Status coding is static.
- Condo/co-op appeal type is new, so we have to assume which classes fit the
  category prior to 2021.

### Nuance

- Only contains appeal decisions for the Assessor's Office. Board of Review
  appeal decisions can be found on the
  [Cook County Open Data portal here](https://datacatalog.cookcountyil.gov/Property-Taxation/Board-of-Review-Appeal-Decision-History/7pny-nedm).
- This view is _not_ unique by PIN and year, as a single PIN can have an
  appeal and CofE/omitted assessment in a given year.

**Primary Key**: `year`, `pin`, `case_no`
{% enddocs %}

# vw_pin_condo_char

{% docs view_vw_pin_condo_char %}
View containing cleaned, filled data for condo modeling. Missing data is
filled as follows:

Condo characteristics are filled with whatever the most recent non-`NULL`
value is. This assumes that new condo data is more accurate than older
data, not that it represents a change in a unit's characteristics. This
should only be the case while condo characteristics are pulled from Excel
workbooks rather than iasWorld.

### Assumptions

- A null proration rate for condo unit indicates the condo isn't associated
  with other units.
- Proration rates in `oby` and `comdat` are parcel-level.
- `effyr` is equivalent to `yrblt` when `yrblt` is `NULL`.
- The most recent value for CDU is most relevant if it has
  been re-coded to `NULL`

### Nuance

- Land is parcel-level.
- Condo parcels can exist in `pardat` but not `comdat` (this is probably a
  reclassification issue).

**Primary Key**: `year`, `pin`
{% enddocs %}

# vw_pin_exempt

{% docs view_vw_pin_exempt %}
Parcels with property tax-exempt status across all of Cook County per tax year,
from 2022 on. Exempt parcels are typically owned by non-profits, religious
institutions, or local governments.

### Nuance

- Mailing addresses and owner names have not been regularly updated since 2017.
- Newer properties may be missing a mailing or property address, as they
  need to be assigned one by the postal service.

**Primary Key**: `year`, `pin`
{% enddocs %}

# vw_pin_history

{% docs view_vw_pin_history %}
Current and prior years' assessments by PIN in wide format.

Assessed values are only populated once townships are "closed" and their
corresponding `procname` value is updated in `iasworld.asmt_all`.

**Primary Key**: `year`, `pin`
{% enddocs %}

# vw_pin_land

{% docs view_vw_pin_land %}
View containing aggregate land square footage for all PINs.

### Nuance

- Different sections of land on the same PIN can be valued at different
  rates, which this view does not capture.

**Primary Key**: `year`, `pin`
{% enddocs %}

# vw_pin_permit

{% docs view_vw_pin_permit %}
View containing building permits organized by PIN, with extra metadata
recorded by CCAO permit specialists during the permit processing workflow.

**Primary Key**: `pin`, `permit_number`, `date_issued`
{% enddocs %}

# vw_pin_sale

{% docs view_vw_pin_sale %}
View containing cleaned and deduplicated PIN-level sales.

Sourced from `iasworld.sales`, which is sourced from
[MyDec](https://mytax.illinois.gov/MyDec/_/). See below for lineage details.

### Assumptions

- `iasworld.sale.deactivat` properly indicates sales that should and shouldn't
  be included.
- Some parcels are sold for the exact same price soon after an initial sale -
  we ignore duplicate prices for PINs if they've sold in the last 12 months.

### Nuance

- `nopar` is inaccurate: it excludes quit claims, executor deeds,
  and beneficial interests.
- `sale.mydec` data is given precedence over `iasworld.sales` prior to 2021
- Multicard sales are excluded from `mydec` data because they can't be joined
  to `iasworld.sales` (which is only parcel-level) without creating duplicates
- Row uniqueness is complicated, and depends on the type of data you are
  interested in:
    - If you exclude sales of multiple PINs ("multisales") by filtering where
      `not is_multisale`, sales are unique by `doc_no`
    - If you include multisales but filter where
      `not sale_filter_same_sale_within_365`, sales are unique by `pin`,
      `doc_no`, and `sale_price`
        - The reason `sale_price` is necessary here is to handle some known
          duplicates in the source data. To remove these duplicates and make
          multisales unique by `pin` and `doc_no`, group your query by `pin`
          and `doc_no` and select `MAX(sale_price)`

### Lineage

This view is constructed from [MyDec](https://mytax.illinois.gov/MyDec/_/) data
gathered and filtered by numerous parties. It uses the `iasworld.sales` table
as a base, which is itself constructed from two separate sources of MyDec data.
Current MyDec records are ingested into `iasworld.sales` using a manual import
process. The full data lineage looks something like:

![Data Flow Diagram](./assets/sales-lineage.svg)

**Primary Key**: `doc_no`, `pin`, `sale_price`
{% enddocs %}

# vw_pin_sale_combined

{% docs view_vw_pin_sale_combined %}
View containing cleaned and deduplicated PIN-level sales. This view additionally
allows in IDOR MyDec sales that don't have a matching sale document number in
`iasworld.sales`. Setting `source = 'iasworld'` allows this view to replicate
`vw_pin_sale`.

Sourced from `iasworld.sales`, which is sourced from
[MyDec](https://mytax.illinois.gov/MyDec/_/). See below for lineage details.

### Assumptions

See `vw_pin_sale`

### Nuance

See `vw_pin_sale`

### Lineage

See `vw_pin_sale`

**Primary Key**: `doc_no`, `pin`
{% enddocs %}

# vw_pin_status

{% docs view_vw_pin_status %}
Collection of various different PIN-level physical and assessment-related
statuses collected and documented across the CCAO and Data Department.
Constructs the Data Department's AHSAP indicator.

### Nuance

- Parcels can have different CDUs from multiple tables. See PIN 05272010320000.

**Primary Key**: `year`, `pin`
{% enddocs %}

# vw_pin_universe

{% docs view_vw_pin_universe %}
PIN-level geographic location and spatially joined locations.

If you want to know where a PIN is or what boundaries it lies within, this
is the view you're looking for.

### Nuance

- `spatial.parcel` typically lags behind `iasworld.pardat` by a year, so data
  for current year can be relatively sparse or missing. Parcel shapefiles
  typically become available to populate this view at the end of each year.
- There are some parcels in `iasworld.pardat` that have *never* been present in
  `spatial.parcel`. These parcels are missing spatial data since they cannot be
  spatially joined *nor* filled forward. The number of discrepancies seems to
  vary randomly by year.
- `spatial.township` is not yearly.

**Primary Key**: `year`, `pin`
{% enddocs %}

# vw_pin_value

{% docs view_vw_pin_value %}
Assessed and market values by PIN and year, for each assessment stage.

The assessment stages are:

1. `mailed` - Values initially mailed by the Assessor
2. `certified` - Values after the Assessor has finished processing appeals
2. `board` - Values after the Board of Review has finished their appeals

### Assumptions

- Taking the max value by 14-digit PIN and year is sufficient for accurate
  values. We do this because even given the criteria to de-dupe `asmt_all`,
  we still end up with duplicates by PIN and year.
- Market value (`_mv`) columns accurately reflect incentives, statute,
  levels of assessment, building splits, etc.

### Nuance

- Market values only exist for stages after and including `2020 Board`. Prior
  to that, market values were stored/tracked in the county mainframe and are
  not easily retrievable.

**Primary Key**: `year`, `pin`
{% enddocs %}

Commit message:

Clarify correctness for `default.vw_pin_sale` uniqueness choice

dbt/models/default/docs.md, after:

# vw_card_res_char

{% docs view_vw_card_res_char %}
View to standardize residential property characteristics for use in modeling
and reporting.

### Nuance

- Only contains characteristics for "regression class" residential properties,
  see `ccao.class_dict` for details.
- Observations are card-level, i.e. each row is one building. Note that a
  card does not necessarily equal a PIN.
- Land is parcel-level, not card-level.

**Primary Key**: `year`, `pin`, `card`
{% enddocs %}

# vw_pin_address

{% docs view_vw_pin_address %}
Source of truth view for PIN address, both legal (property address)
and mailing (owner/taxpayer address).

### Nuance

- Mailing addresses and owner names have not been regularly updated since 2017.
- Newer properties may be missing a mailing or property address, as they
  need to be assigned one by the postal service.

**Primary Key**: `year`, `pin`
{% enddocs %}

# vw_pin_appeal

{% docs view_vw_pin_appeal %}
View of assessment appeals by stage (wide format). Shows appeal decision,
reason, and results.

### Assumptions

- Appeal types coding is static.
- Status coding is static.
- Condo/co-op appeal type is new, so we have to assume which classes fit the
  category prior to 2021.

### Nuance

- Only contains appeal decisions for the Assessor's Office. Board of Review
  appeal decisions can be found on the
  [Cook County Open Data portal here](https://datacatalog.cookcountyil.gov/Property-Taxation/Board-of-Review-Appeal-Decision-History/7pny-nedm).
- This view is _not_ unique by PIN and year, as a single PIN can have an
  appeal and CofE/omitted assessment in a given year.

**Primary Key**: `year`, `pin`, `case_no`
{% enddocs %}

# vw_pin_condo_char

{% docs view_vw_pin_condo_char %}
View containing cleaned, filled data for condo modeling. Missing data is
filled as follows:

Condo characteristics are filled with whatever the most recent non-`NULL`
value is. This assumes that new condo data is more accurate than older
data, not that it represents a change in a unit's characteristics. This
should only be the case while condo characteristics are pulled from Excel
workbooks rather than iasWorld.

### Assumptions

- A null proration rate for condo unit indicates the condo isn't associated
  with other units.
- Proration rates in `oby` and `comdat` are parcel-level.
- `effyr` is equivalent to `yrblt` when `yrblt` is `NULL`.
- The most recent value for CDU is most relevant if it has
  been re-coded to `NULL`

### Nuance

- Land is parcel-level.
- Condo parcels can exist in `pardat` but not `comdat` (this is probably a
  reclassification issue).

**Primary Key**: `year`, `pin`
{% enddocs %}

# vw_pin_exempt

{% docs view_vw_pin_exempt %}
Parcels with property tax-exempt status across all of Cook County per tax year,
from 2022 on. Exempt parcels are typically owned by non-profits, religious
institutions, or local governments.

### Nuance

- Mailing addresses and owner names have not been regularly updated since 2017.
- Newer properties may be missing a mailing or property address, as they
  need to be assigned one by the postal service.

**Primary Key**: `year`, `pin`
{% enddocs %}

# vw_pin_history

{% docs view_vw_pin_history %}
Current and prior years' assessments by PIN in wide format.

Assessed values are only populated once townships are "closed" and their
corresponding `procname` value is updated in `iasworld.asmt_all`.

**Primary Key**: `year`, `pin`
{% enddocs %}

# vw_pin_land

{% docs view_vw_pin_land %}
View containing aggregate land square footage for all PINs.

### Nuance

- Different sections of land on the same PIN can be valued at different
  rates, which this view does not capture.

**Primary Key**: `year`, `pin`
{% enddocs %}

# vw_pin_permit

{% docs view_vw_pin_permit %}
View containing building permits organized by PIN, with extra metadata
recorded by CCAO permit specialists during the permit processing workflow.

**Primary Key**: `pin`, `permit_number`, `date_issued`
{% enddocs %}

# vw_pin_sale

{% docs view_vw_pin_sale %}
View containing cleaned and deduplicated PIN-level sales.

Sourced from `iasworld.sales`, which is sourced from
[MyDec](https://mytax.illinois.gov/MyDec/_/). See below for lineage details.

### Assumptions

- `iasworld.sale.deactivat` properly indicates sales that should and shouldn't
  be included.
- Some parcels are sold for the exact same price soon after an initial sale -
  we ignore duplicate prices for PINs if they've sold in the last 12 months.

### Nuance

- `nopar` is inaccurate: it excludes quit claims, executor deeds,
  and beneficial interests.
- `sale.mydec` data is given precedence over `iasworld.sales` prior to 2021
- Multicard sales are excluded from `mydec` data because they can't be joined
  to `iasworld.sales` (which is only parcel-level) without creating duplicates
- Row uniqueness is complicated, and depends on the type of data you are
  interested in:
    - If you exclude sales of multiple PINs ("multisales") by filtering where
      `not is_multisale`, sales are unique by `doc_no`
    - If you include multisales but filter where
      `not sale_filter_same_sale_within_365`, sales are unique by `pin`,
      `doc_no`, and `sale_price`
        - The reason `sale_price` is necessary here is to handle some known
          duplicates in the source data. To remove these duplicates and make
          multisales unique by `pin` and `doc_no`, group your query by `pin`
          and `doc_no` and select either the maximum or minimum sale price.
          We tend to prefer the maximum, but there is no inherent correctness
          to this choice, and the correct sale price to choose will depend
          on how you want to use the sales

### Lineage

This view is constructed from [MyDec](https://mytax.illinois.gov/MyDec/_/) data
gathered and filtered by numerous parties. It uses the `iasworld.sales` table
as a base, which is itself constructed from two separate sources of MyDec data.
Current MyDec records are ingested into `iasworld.sales` using a manual import
process. The full data lineage looks something like:

![Data Flow Diagram](./assets/sales-lineage.svg)

**Primary Key**: `doc_no`, `pin`, `sale_price`
{% enddocs %}

# vw_pin_sale_combined

{% docs view_vw_pin_sale_combined %}
View containing cleaned and deduplicated PIN-level sales. This view additionally
allows in IDOR MyDec sales that don't have a matching sale document number in
`iasworld.sales`. Setting `source = 'iasworld'` allows this view to replicate
`vw_pin_sale`.

Sourced from `iasworld.sales`, which is sourced from
[MyDec](https://mytax.illinois.gov/MyDec/_/). See below for lineage details.

### Assumptions

See `vw_pin_sale`

### Nuance

See `vw_pin_sale`

### Lineage

See `vw_pin_sale`

**Primary Key**: `doc_no`, `pin`
{% enddocs %}

# vw_pin_status

{% docs view_vw_pin_status %}
Collection of various different PIN-level physical and assessment-related
statuses collected and documented across the CCAO and Data Department.
Constructs the Data Department's AHSAP indicator.

### Nuance

- Parcels can have different CDUs from multiple tables. See PIN 05272010320000.

**Primary Key**: `year`, `pin`
{% enddocs %}

# vw_pin_universe

{% docs view_vw_pin_universe %}
PIN-level geographic location and spatially joined locations.

If you want to know where a PIN is or what boundaries it lies within, this
is the view you're looking for.

### Nuance

- `spatial.parcel` typically lags behind `iasworld.pardat` by a year, so data
  for current year can be relatively sparse or missing. Parcel shapefiles
  typically become available to populate this view at the end of each year.
- There are some parcels in `iasworld.pardat` that have *never* been present in
  `spatial.parcel`. These parcels are missing spatial data since they cannot be
  spatially joined *nor* filled forward. The number of discrepancies seems to
  vary randomly by year.
- `spatial.township` is not yearly.

**Primary Key**: `year`, `pin`
{% enddocs %}

# vw_pin_value

{% docs view_vw_pin_value %}
Assessed and market values by PIN and year, for each assessment stage.

The assessment stages are:

1. `mailed` - Values initially mailed by the Assessor
2. `certified` - Values after the Assessor has finished processing appeals
2. `board` - Values after the Board of Review has finished their appeals

### Assumptions

- Taking the max value by 14-digit PIN and year is sufficient for accurate
  values. We do this because even given the criteria to de-dupe `asmt_all`,
  we still end up with duplicates by PIN and year.
- Market value (`_mv`) columns accurately reflect incentives, statute,
  levels of assessment, building splits, etc.

### Nuance

- Market values only exist for stages after and including `2020 Board`. Prior
  to that, market values were stored/tracked in the county mainframe and are
  not easily retrievable.

**Primary Key**: `year`, `pin`
{% enddocs %}
