dbt/models/sale/docs.md, before:

# flag

{% docs flag %}
PIN-level sales validation flags created by
[model-sales-val](https://github.com/ccao-data/model-sales-val).

This is the primary sales validation output table. Flags within this table
should be possible to reconstruct using the other sales validation tables:
`sale.group_mean`, `sale.parameter`, and `sale.metadata`.

**Primary Key**: `meta_sale_document_number`, `run_id`, `version`
{% enddocs %}

# flag_review

{% docs flag_review %}
Data built by manual review by analysts that determine whether or not
we should include sales in the model.

**Primary Key**: `doc_no`
{% enddocs %}

# foreclosure

{% docs foreclosure %}
Foreclosure data ingested from Illinois Public Records (RIS).

**Primary Key**: `pin`, `document_number`
{% enddocs %}

# group_mean

{% docs group_mean %}
Information about groups used to calculate statistical deviations
for sales validation.

**Primary Key**: `run_id`, `group`
{% enddocs %}

# metadata

{% docs metadata %}
Information about the code used for a sales validation run, as well as
the start time and type of run.

**Primary Key**: `run_id`
{% enddocs %}

# mydec

{% docs mydec %}
MyDec data from the Illinois Department of Revenue (IDOR). Includes property
transfer declarations (sales) used to fill in missing data in `iasworld.sales`
and as an input to sales validation flagging.

**Primary Key**: `document_number`, `year_of_sale`
{% enddocs %}

# parameter

{% docs parameter %}
Parameters used for each run of
[model-sales-val](https://github.com/ccao-data/model-sales-val),
including the statistical bounds, groupings, window sizes, etc.

**Primary Key**: `run_id`
{% enddocs %}

# vw_flag

{% docs vw_flag %}
PIN-level sales validation flags created by
[model-sales-val](https://github.com/ccao-data/model-sales-val).

This view derives the most recent version of flags for each sale in the
`sale.flag` table, which uses its `version` column as a type 2
slowly changing dimension. As such, this view is unique by `doc_no`.

**Primary Key**: `doc_no`
{% enddocs %}

# vw_flag_group

{% docs vw_flag_group %}
Information about sales val flags and the underlying parameters used
in the flagging determination.

Nuance: The `meets_group_threshold` column tells us whether or not a sale's
`group` met the number of observations requirement. If it was not met,
typically the sale will be set to `sv_is_outlier = False`. However, the sale
can be still receieve a value of `sv_is_outlier = True` if both are true

- the sale sees certain line items marked on line 10 of the ptax-203 form
- the sale is a certain standard deviation away from the mean of its' group
  as defined in `ptax_sd` in the configuration file

**Primary Key**: `run_id`, `doc_no`
{% enddocs %}

# vw_ias_salesval_upload

{% docs vw_ias_salesval_upload %}
View for sales validation outputs to create an upload format compatible
with iasWorld.

**Primary Key**: `salekey`, `run_id`
{% enddocs %}

# vw_outlier

{% docs vw_outlier %}

View that combines `sale.flag` and `sale.flag_review` to produce one
unified view of all sales validation information for a sale based on its
doc number.

**Primary Key**: `doc_no`
{% enddocs %}

Commit message:

Document new outlier columns and views

dbt/models/sale/docs.md, after:

# flag

{% docs flag %}
PIN-level sales validation flags created by
[model-sales-val](https://github.com/ccao-data/model-sales-val).

This is the primary sales validation output table. Flags within this table
should be possible to reconstruct using the other sales validation tables:
`sale.group_mean`, `sale.parameter`, and `sale.metadata`.

**Primary Key**: `meta_sale_document_number`, `run_id`, `version`
{% enddocs %}

# flag_review

{% docs flag_review %}
Data built by manual review by analysts that determine whether or not
we should include sales in the model.

**Primary Key**: `doc_no`
{% enddocs %}

# foreclosure

{% docs foreclosure %}
Foreclosure data ingested from Illinois Public Records (RIS).

**Primary Key**: `pin`, `document_number`
{% enddocs %}

# group_mean

{% docs group_mean %}
Information about groups used to calculate statistical deviations
for sales validation.

**Primary Key**: `run_id`, `group`
{% enddocs %}

# metadata

{% docs metadata %}
Information about the code used for a sales validation run, as well as
the start time and type of run.

**Primary Key**: `run_id`
{% enddocs %}

# mydec

{% docs mydec %}
MyDec data from the Illinois Department of Revenue (IDOR). Includes property
transfer declarations (sales) used to fill in missing data in `iasworld.sales`
and as an input to sales validation flagging.

**Primary Key**: `document_number`, `year_of_sale`
{% enddocs %}

# parameter

{% docs parameter %}
Parameters used for each run of
[model-sales-val](https://github.com/ccao-data/model-sales-val),
including the statistical bounds, groupings, window sizes, etc.

**Primary Key**: `run_id`
{% enddocs %}

# vw_flag

{% docs vw_flag %}
PIN-level sales validation flags created by
[model-sales-val](https://github.com/ccao-data/model-sales-val).

This view derives the most recent version of flags for each sale in the
`sale.flag` table, which uses its `version` column as a type 2
slowly changing dimension. As such, this view is unique by `doc_no`.

**Primary Key**: `doc_no`
{% enddocs %}

# vw_flag_group

{% docs vw_flag_group %}
Information about sales val flags and the underlying parameters used
in the flagging determination.

Nuance: The `meets_group_threshold` column tells us whether or not a sale's
`group` met the number of observations requirement. If it was not met,
typically the sale will be set to `sv_is_outlier = False`. However, the sale
can be still receieve a value of `sv_is_outlier = True` if both are true

- the sale sees certain line items marked on line 10 of the ptax-203 form
- the sale is a certain standard deviation away from the mean of its' group
  as defined in `ptax_sd` in the configuration file

**Primary Key**: `run_id`, `doc_no`
{% enddocs %}

# vw_ias_salesval_upload

{% docs vw_ias_salesval_upload %}
View for sales validation outputs to create an upload format compatible
with iasWorld.

**Primary Key**: `salekey`, `run_id`
{% enddocs %}

# vw_outlier

{% docs vw_outlier %}

View that combines `sale.flag` and `sale.flag_review` to produce one
unified view of all sales validation information for a sale based on its
doc number.

**Nuance**: Unlike the constituent tables `sale.flag` and `sale.flag_review`,
the determination columns in this view (like `flag_is_outlier` or
`review_has_class_change`) will never be null, even if the sale was not flagged
or was not reviewed by an analyst. This is intended to ease the process of using
these columns for boolean logic, so that we never have to handle the case where
a boolean comparison could return null unexpectedly. However, it introduces the
potential for confusion, in that a sale could have a not-null value for a
determination column that does not actually correspond to a decision made by
our algorithm or a reviewer. To determine whether a value in a determination
column corresponds to a real decision made by our algorithm or a reviewer, use the
`has_flag` and `has_review` columns.

**Primary Key**: `doc_no`
{% enddocs %}
